The rumor mill is afire with sources all but confirming that a 7" iPad is on the way for the end of the year. Honestly, I think that's a pretty boring rumor. 

Don't get me wrong; a 7" iPad will sell like water in the desert. It will probably push me over my tipping point and turn me into an iPad owner, assuming I can resist the urge to buy a Nexus 7. It's unexciting, though: 7" tablets already exist. Apple won't be creating the space, which they're good at, nor will they be disrupting the market, since the product already exits in a larger form factor. Simply, a 7" iPad will be a 7" iPad. There's little to imagine there. We know how iPads work and we know iOS quite intimately by now.

In lieu of these rumors, I've been thinking about the long rumored Apple television. Oh, no, not _that_ thing again, right? Right. The reason I've been thinking about it is because I want a fresh dose of innovation. Especially in the television space. In a lot of ways, we're asking for it. Look at how popular YouTube, Hulu, Netflix, iTunes, etc. have become and at how quickly it happened. We're crying out for different ways to access and consume our programming.

Apple, of course, is no stranger to disruption. In Apple's (very) recent history, they've reshaped the cell phone industry with the iPhone. The first ever handheld mobile phone came out just under 40 years ago and it wasn't until a couple decades later that the cell phone industry started to gain some real steam. Consider how much the iPhone did for the relatively young cell phone industry.

Alternatively, the first television is more than twice as old as the first mobile phone--not even smartphone. TV has been with us for a long time and has engrained itself in cultures around the world. It's an old product. It's been a largely unchanging medium through it's entire life, too, mostly evolving on the hardware side to give us better pictures, thinner sets, and 3D (wooo).

Apple's much rumored TV is exciting because it would come with the promise of doing for TV what the iPhone did for cell phones. It would be well built, easy to set up, simple to use, make content directly accessible, and integrate with devices you may already own.

What I dream of for an Apple television is complete programming control. All your programming would be available via a consolidated service (read: iTunes). Enjoy a television show? Subscribe to it. You'll get each new episode as it comes out in the store and you can watch it whenever you're ready. Networks and channels may dissolve away, leaving only the content you turn your TV on now to see. Furthermore, there could be content packages and bundles that give you a collection of related content--sports, dramas from a single network, award winning series from across networks, etc--for one price and could even curated by the networks themselves. And for the traditionalists, you would be able to subscribe to entire networks or channels to access all the content they televise.

The realist in me, however, doesn't believe this vision is possible for a 1st generation Apple television. It may not be possible at all. This model cuts out advertisers completely or, at the very least, severely diminishes their footprint. That may not fly. The networks may not buy into it as a replacement for traditional programming. Then again, there are plenty of TV shows in iTunes already. My guess would be that the first version(s) will come with TV tuners and seamlessly pipe into your existing cable connection using iTunes content as a layer on top of the cable experience.

If Apple decides to make a television, regardless of the overall feature set, it's safe to assume that it will wrestle content away from the networks' stranglehold and attempt to put it in the hands of the viewers. When, and if, that happens, it sounds pretty damn exciting to me.